# URLS

* obviously an important part of websites & apps
* basic ideas:
  * URLs are technically *opague*
    * i.e. just identifying strings to server & client
    * no semantic meaning
  * but they are often used by users to determine structure of the site: displayed in search results, copied into emails, browser location bar.
  * therefore: URLs are part of your user interface
  * URLs identify a resource (a piece of context)
    * file formats represent a resource
  * URLs should correspond 1:1 with resources
  * multiple URLs per resource: one piece of content with multiple URLs    
    * could be just `/dir/` and `/dir/index.html`
    * or URL shorteners info in URL
    * can confuse users, splits PageRank, separately cached/crawled
    * solutions: be consistent with URLs, redirect to canonical location.
  * multiple resources at one URL
    * i.e. JS tabs or other dynamic content, Flash blobs
    * can't be linked, bookmarked, emailed.
  * *What about single-page sites?*  
  * URLs should be persistent
    * redirect if moving or changing URL structure
    * if deleting records, leave a redirect, or "how about these?" page
    * persistent URLs mean links to your site.

## URL Usability

* URLs are an important part of your UI.
  * people look at them & use them to determine structure.
  * so design them to be helpful to the user

## Readable URLs:

* makes search results, emailed URLs more useful.
* avoid escaped characters (e.g. space -> `%20`), mixed case.
* short (<= 1 line in email)
* avoid artificial ids.
  * e.g. `/items/8947/details`
    * -> `/items/force-awakens/details`
* non-ASCII characters in URLs
  * ... or any special characters like "?" or "\n"
  * Unicode characters are UTF-8 encoded
* design for users, not implementation
  * bad but common:

  ```
  /pim/show_person.php?id=849
  /pim/person/show/849
  ```

  * with a decent hierarchy:
    `/people/ggbaker`

# Implementing Good URLs

* What the (frontend) server does..
  * have some rules about what URL prefixes are static/dynamic.
  * rest of the request URL is intepretted by the framework
  * the router
  * frameworks allow arbitrary URL to logic mapping
    * URL path -> function & arguments
    * you give a collection of patterns
    * defaults might not be what you want
* leave your URLs flexible during development.
  * don't hard-code URLs into templates
  * use the functions of your framework that construct URLs
  
